---
subtitle: PostgreSQL
---

- **Verified Versions:** 9.2, 18
- **Maintainer:** {% include redgate-badge.html %}

## Supported Versions and Support Levels

{% include database-boilerplate.html %}

## Driver

| Item                               | Details                                                                |
|------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **URL format**                     | <code>jdbc:postgresql://<i>host</i>:<i>port</i>/<i>database</i></code> |
| **SSL support**                    | Yes - add `?ssl=true`                                                  |
| **Ships with Flyway Command-line** | Yes                                                                    |
| **Maven Central coordinates**      | `org.postgresql:postgresql`                                            |
| **Supported versions**             | `9.3-1104-jdbc4` and later                                             |
| **Default Java class**             | `org.postgresql.Driver`                                                |

## Related database-specific configuration

PostgreSQL-specific configuration can be found [here](<Configuration/Flyway Namespace/Flyway PostgreSQL Namespace>).

## Java Usage

PostgreSQL support is a separate dependency for Flyway and will need to be added to your Java project to access these features.
PostgreSQL is found within the `flyway-database-postgresql` plugin module.

### Maven

#### Redgate

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.redgate.flyway</groupId>
    <artifactId>flyway-database-postgresql</artifactId>
</dependency>
```

#### Open Source

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.flywaydb</groupId>
    <artifactId>flyway-database-postgresql</artifactId>
</dependency>
```

### Gradle

#### Redgate

```groovy
dependencies {
    implementation "com.redgate.flyway:flyway-database-postgresql"
}
```

#### Open Source

```groovy
dependencies {
    implementation "org.flywaydb:flyway-database-postgresql"
}
```


## SQL Script Syntax

- Standard SQL syntax with statement delimiter **;**
- Stored procedures (`CREATE FUNCTION` with `$$` escapes, as generated by pg_dump)
- `COPY ... FROM STDIN` (as generated by pg_dump)

### Compatibility

- DDL exported by pg_dump can be used unchanged in a Flyway migration.
- Any PostgreSQL sql script executed by Flyway, can be executed by the PostgreSQL command-line tool and other
        PostgreSQL-compatible tools (after the placeholders have been replaced).

### Example

<pre class="prettyprint">/* Single line comment */
CREATE TABLE test_data (
 value VARCHAR(25) NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY
);


/*
Multi-line
comment
*/

-- Multi-statement PostgreSQL function
CREATE FUNCTION AddData() RETURNS INTEGER
AS $$
   BEGIN
    INSERT INTO test_data (value) VALUES ('Hello');
    RETURN 1;
  END;
$$ LANGUAGE plpgsql;

SELECT *  INTO TEMP adddata_temp_table FROM AddData() ;

-- Single-statement PostgreSQL function
CREATE FUNCTION add(integer, integer) RETURNS integer
   LANGUAGE sql IMMUTABLE STRICT
   AS $_$select $1 + $2;$_$;

-- Placeholder
INSERT INTO ${tableName} (name) VALUES ('Mr. T');</pre>

## Authentication

Flyway supports the following PostgreSQL authentication methods:

- URL authentication 
- SCRAM
- pgpass

### URL authentication

The user and password can be provided in the JDBC URL, in the form

`jdbc:postgresql://<host>:<port>/<database>?user=myUsername&password=myPassword&<key1>=<value1>&<key2>=<value2>...`

In this case, they do not need to be passed separately in configuration and the Flyway commandline will not prompt for them.

### SCRAM

SCRAM authentication encryption is supported transparently using the current driver (42.2.14) - note that 
`.jre6` and `.jre7` versions of the driver for older JREs do not support it. 

### pgpass
{% include teams.html %}

Authentication can be done with a pgpass file to retrieve the password for a connection, in which case it does not need to be supplied in configuration. If the path to a pgpass file is set in the environment variable `PGPASSFILE`, it will be read from here. If not, then in Windows the file will be read from the location `%APPDATA%\postgresql\pgpass.conf`, otherwise it is read from`~/.pgpass`. You can read more about pgpass files and their structure [here](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.6/libpq-pgpass.html).

## Lock Types

By default Flyway uses a transactional lock with PostgreSQL, however this can cause issues with certain SQL statements, most notably `CREATE INDEX CONCURRENTLY`. In this scenario, transactional locks can be replaced with session-level locks by setting `flyway.postgresql.transactional.lock=false` in your configuration.

## Limitations

- No support for PSQL meta-commands with no JDBC equivalent like `\set`
- Clean does not remove objects created by extensions. It is therefore highly recommended to create your extensions
 using `CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS` in order to be able to clean and (re-)migrate your schemas at will
- No support for cleaning referenced large objects in `pg_largeobject` ([Issue 1934](https://github.com/flyway/flyway/issues/1934))
- No support for the `passfile` or `hostaddr` parameter when using pgpass as there is no JDBC equivalent

## Feature support for check command

Support for the check command on PostgreSQL databases is currently ongoing. Basic support for the following object types has been implemented.

- Aggregates
- Domains
- Enumerations
- Foreign Keys
- Functions
- Indexes
- Materialized Views
- Procedures
- Schemas
- Sequences
- Tables
- Triggers
- Views